ladies and gentlemen
i am not here to keep scorn on the
youtuber known as a natural vegan i am
not here to keep scorn on socialism or
communism as abstract concepts i'm not
here to keep scoring on capitalism i'm
not here to heapscorn on unnatural
vegan's newly adopted identity as a
neoliberal i think that the new videos
that a natural vegan has been making
provide us with a really interesting
opportunity to re-examine what
neoliberalism means in the 21st century
what socialism means in the 21st century
in the year 2021 we are very much living
in the post-bernie sanders epoch when
the meaning of socialism is going to be
questioned and people are going to come
up with new answers
what it means to be on the left when it
needs to be right and what it means to
be on the center these are things that
are malleable and they're being
redefined right now let me ask you a
question the audience have you ever once
seen
joe biden referred to as a
neoliberal you certainly haven't seen
donald trump referred to as either
neoliberal or neoconservative so the
significance and meaning of these things
is susceptible to change so shout out to
everyone in the audience i see just one
comment so far the last time i did a
live stream uh
there was concern about tactical errors
provided caused by youtube obviously
it's a miracle of our uh modern times
that i'm able to do these things in a
spontaneous way we're planning to
commence today so as you guys know if
you support me on patreon i make almost
no money out of this it's not my
pecuniary interest that i enjoy doing
this if you hit the thumbs up or if you
share the link
some of you might be a member of a
facebook group or a reddit group or
something or people who enjoy joining
the conversation share the link through
facebook or reddit or give it a thumbs
up and the reward is we'll all get to
react to hopefully some more interesting
or intelligent comments to the audience
all right i i just got to say here
my bias in this case is positive if i
feel that someone has a terrible youtube
channel and they start making more
meaningful content i'm happy for them
and i'm happy for the audience i'm happy
for all of us you know am i a fan of a
natural vegans youtube channel past
present or future no no i'm not but of
course i can recognize that her taking
the time and making the effort to talk
about concepts like communism and
socialism and neoliberalism this is much
more substantive and worthwhile for all
of us than
99.9 of her youtube videos in the past
so you know
one of the ways to think about these
things i just say i i encourage you to
do this in your own uh
meditations on social media and in your
interactions with others is you know
what if this person was my own brother
what if this person were my own sister
you know i i
i have brothers and sisters i'm terribly
disappointed in but you know as much as
i may dislike someone you think well if
this were my brother if this was i'm i'm
happy to see they're doing well i'm
happy to see they're doing better i'm
happy to see they're making youtube
videos about something that's more
serious or more meaningful or more
rewarding for them and like in a natural
vegans case i'm happy to see that she's
challenging herself that she's getting
out of her comfort zone it's certainly
much better to lead your audience in a
discussion of like what really is the
meaning of socialism in the year 2021
than it is to engage in reflections on
how morally superior she is to other
vegan youtubers who upload images of
themselves on vacation with their
children
includes me
because she's so moist where she would
never do that she would never put her
own son or daughter on camera this is
you know to me this is just not going
anywhere like you know most of her
content this way or you know the
advantages of having a high protein
vegan diet as opposed to what
just
you know a comparative analysis of
different brands of vegan ice cream
great comment from the audience quote
you look spattered
yeah it's hot as hell here if i if i
turn on the fan you guys are going to
get the background noise from the fan
there you see that yeah so this is
likely to be a high humidity video and
more
so yeah it's uh it's it to quote uh to
quote a famous rapper it's it's getting
hot in here so you know maybe later
maybe
maybe we're going to take off all our
clothes okay so let's get the you know
um i have very few friends you wouldn't
have guessed this about me i have a few
friends but i put a lot of i put a lot
of effort into those friendships and you
know one of the things i say to jj
mccullough all the time it's it's pretty
much a public fact that he and i are our
friends some of that you know i say to
him look you know i challenge him or i
encourage him said look you have to
engage in the politics of talking about
what it is you want what it is you
desire it's very easy to engage in
politics completely negatively to just
negate what you don't want what's bad
what's until you treat which by the way
is productive and necessary up to a
point but i mean obviously you can
imagine if you were um
uh
if you were the host on a broadcast news
talk show uh you could every single
episode just criticize what you think
joe biden is doing wrong and never once
state positively what you want what is
your vision of the future what is your
own political platform what is the kind
of society you you want to live in what
do you think is the better solution for
example about health care or
unemployment any any particular interest
there's a different sort of challenge
there and there's also a different sort
of way of of revealing who you are um as
the commentary the sense you're
revealing your own weaknesses and
stating what kind of society you you
want to live in what it is you desire
now so i just say that's that's the kind
of contact with them i think over the
years i've had that conversation with
just a few other people where i say look
i understand what you're doing here
politically but you're not really taking
the risk of talking about what you want
possibly now another type of honesty
that i encourage youtubers to engage in
i encourage you in the audience to
engage in is talking about where your
own political resolutions come from
um what the origins of them are which
very likely will be in your own reading
possibly in watching a movie or hearing
a news program on the radio like a
documentary on you know some some news
station like npr or something or it may
come out of you know your own direct
experience and i find when people speak
that way it gives you a sense of why
they believe the things they believe why
they aim at the goals they do and so on
and it gives you a sense of the
limitations and motivations and purpose
of what they're saying now so again i'm
not i'm real the purpose of this live
stream is really not to criticize or
hate on a natural vegan i applaud her
taking this small step towards a more
honest and profound engagement with
politics and with the medium of youtube
frankly it's it's an improvement
i hope she takes more steps in that
direction but okay unnatural vegan we
know broadly
the the arc
of her life you guys might or might not
have noticed but um
uh you know
uh she often has movie posters up in the
background
of pretty like you know the terminator
not quite star wars or star trek but
different science fiction movies so we
know and she's talked to some extent
about the movies she's a fan of but she
really collects this kind of chintzy
crap from
science fiction movies she's someone who
started off being this kind of hippie
into what she would now call
pseudoscience supernatural magical
beliefs um she was a philosophy major
and she has a ba in philosophy right and
she was into science fiction and this
kind of thing and at some point she has
obviously gotten interested in what
would either be called neoliberalism or
neoconservatism or even right-wing
libertarianism
now i'm not hating on her again i'm not
christian there's probably an
interesting story for her to tell there
any of us who go through changes in our
political leagues and by the way i'm
willing and eager to talk about the
change in my own political perspective
my political perspective has changed
just in the last five years and i'm a
vicious old man
your political perspective changes
between the age of 18 and 25 but it can
change between 35 and 45 believe me you
know but i can tell you what the things
were i read or what the experiences
where i had in life why my perspective
changed why why my sense of message you
know the question i would ask and
everyone should ask to themselves and if
you have your own youtube channel or if
you're on social media
what is it that changed in her that made
her shift to this frankly right-wing
view of the world that's very unpopular
even amongst conservatives right now
it's this is popular around 1992.
um
what made your shift to this pro-free
market so-called neoliberal view of the
world now it may be that you read a
particular book it may be that she
watched a particular movie it may be
this is completely speculative that she
used to be a bit more of a left-wing
science fiction watching hippie
and then she met and fell in love with a
particular man
and started to and that man was more
conservative or more right-wing or more
libertarian and she started to see
things his way or started to watch the
movies he watches or read the books he
read and that changed your view for many
people that's the case male or female
associated it's also possible this is
totally speculation but many of you in
the audience will feel this way i know
this is so common maybe she started off
being a bit of a left-wing person
and then on the internet in her position
as a as an internet commentator she had
to cope with a lot of [ __ ] from left
you know she started having problems and
started questioning
you know
oh
so this is where this comes from this is
where this goes in her case just given
her particular type of fame her
particular position in the in the vegan
demi-mod the type of people who would be
getting at her you know uh talking to
her about their political police talking
to her about bernie sanders and
alexandria ocasio-cortez but kind of
left-wing
uh ecology ecologically sensitive
vegan people maybe in the last five
years maybe the last 10 years she's been
sitting back looking at those people
from her particular perspective and
thinking
i don't want to be in the same camp as
these people maybe she's starting to see
cracks in that or she started to see the
extent to which concepts like socialism
are really just used as bait on the hook
to convert people to
hardline communism to to draw people
into marxism certainly a large part of
the energy of what goes on in the bernie
sanders camp and in the alexandria cause
of course this game uh sorry i am going
to reply to stuff that people are saying
in the comments you're welcome to
comment you're hoping to join the
audience you're welcome to hit thumbs up
so other people will comment join the
audience
um okay you know keeping all the way
real
the worst thing bernie sanders ever did
for the future of life on planet earth
was
bringing in this woman who promoted uh
modern monetary theory mmt you know
special advisor and all the news
broadcast stations covered it and she
has her book so you know quote-unquote
mmt i mean let's type it out if you guys
didn't know quote on quote
uh
quote mmt unquote
[Laughter]
you know
the the significance of mmt is in
economic theory is absolutely nothing
other than recruiting people into
communism there is no other positive
significance complete or [ __ ] no
economist can take it seriously
otherwise except as as this kind of uh
far left recruiting okay guys i'm going
to turn to the the comments now i just
want to check because we had to restart
the live stream so many times i am going
to click the mic and i hope you guys can
hear three clicks
i'm four klex okay so if you guys heard
the clicking could someone just say that
you heard the mic click because if not
the computer is using the wrong
microphone which will be uh
disappointing to me this is this is the
high quality microphone
someone encourages me to do a topless
stream and says
only fans thank you i appreciate it
i will just say
i got uh the vaccine twice so i am
doubly vaccinated as immune as i could
possibly be
uh it really did cut into my workout
schedule i have lost
uh strength and i have gained body fat
during my the interruptions to my life
caused by that so we have had
significant side effects and uh
from from our repeated
uh inoculations however we want to put
it so yeah i am a little bit
disappointed by how i look with my shirt
off at the moment but but don't don't
worry i'm absolutely certain that at age
42 i'm going to make a comeback in no
time no problem no problem
complete reckless self-confidence that
i'm not entirely confident
it could be all downhill from here folks
the days of my shirtless selfies they
could be behind me forever but we'll see
we'll see to what extent i managed to uh
get in better shape uh
lazy baby chicken says they just got
here did you miss anything yes
yes
i'm sorry you missed a great
what am i supposed to say what do you
think the first 10 minutes of the
broadcast didn't contain anything of
substance of course it did
um
all right so good question from nacho by
the way i regard these questions as
totally uh
well-intentioned so he says wait is it
neo-liberal or is it right-wing okay so
this is one of the things i want to say
about unnatural vegan and about anyone
who wants to engage in this kind of
discourse this kind of you know debates
okay
um
isn't it easier to understand what we
mean by neoliberal
or any abstract category of political
ideologies if you put a human face on it
what is neoliberalism who is
neoliberalism tony
blair tony blair is neoliberalism
wouldn't it be different if a natural
vegan had come on camera this isn't what
she said if she had come on camera and
said that when she looks back at the
history of the 20th and 21st century she
thinks the single greatest political
leader we've ever had was tony blair and
that she thinks you know the the bright
the brightest period of the history of
the british isles was the governor tony
blair and she feels that the people who
have been in charge of england since
tony blair retired have really been
worse whether they were
liberal or conservative or
they do have a third party in england
but it's never in power
um
pardon me whether they are labor or
conservative i should say
you know um but anyway they do also have
a a liberal democrat party uh and that
she really feels that is the way forward
that the future of the united states of
america should be more like the
government of tony player now she
doesn't say that right away if some more
to say that you know exactly what she
means by neoliberal now am i being
facetious no
um
tony blair wrote a book called the
stakeholder society
i could type it out but i don't think
anyone wants to read it i will make the
reckless proposition today i think i'm
the only person here who has read tony
blair's book the singular society anyone
else in the audience who read it you
know shout out to let me know in the
comment section did you read tony
player's book the stakeholder society i
do not think there is a single human
being left right or center anywhere in
the world who is holding up tony blair's
book and saying this is the future of
politics this is the way to go tony
blair had it right there is no one who
remembers his long period in power
positively under any heading it's not
remembered well in terms of foreign
policy in terms of domestic policy in
terms of the economy anything um now
okay
tony period in government is also not
remembered as a disaster like communism
or fascism no
but i would say at best people remember
it as a disappointing period of
mediocrity in the british isles right
okay so now that's interesting now
you know
look i asked a question openly is there
anyone anywhere in the world who really
positively feels possibly identifies
with neoliberalism in that sense someone
who really says that they feel tony
blair's book and his ideas and his
ideals and the way he ranked like that
tony blairism was a wonderful thing in
the history of the world and that's what
we should go back to or we should go
further in that direction all right no
i cannot say nobody feels that way out
of the billions of people on planet
earth but let's let's be honest
shockingly few people feel that way how
many people today support tony blarism
by which i just mean oh okay i mean
neoliberalism more narrowly defined as
the ideology of tony blair so let me
just justify the connection between the
two
prior to tony blair coming into power
in england there was neoconservatism
well okay i guess they're through words
there was conservatism there was
neoconservatism
and then there was the far left
um
a form of socialism in england that was
deeply beholden to labor unions
and a small number of other kind of
patrons of the labor party as it then
was so you call that kind of paleo
labor leftism
and what tony blair did was offer a new
direction in politics basically taking
neoconservatism and painting it with
liberal social and cultural values so
for example
being pro-homosexual
pro-transsexual this kind of thing uh
and also just in favor of having a more
generous approach to uh healthcare
policy more in terms of government
spending so they took neoconservatism
and gave it a kind of liberal coat of
pain and it became
neoliberalism
now the contrast between neoconservatism
and neoliberalism is very slight
however the contrast between tony
blair's labor party and the type of
labor party that existed before and
after the dominance of tony blair is
extreme right so i like tony blair it
was totally epoch-making it was this
total
turning upside down of british politics
uh turning inside out of british
politics it was an inversion of the
natural order as they'd seen it
you had for the first time a nominally
left-wing party nominally left of center
party
that was preaching
decentralization deregulation small
government fiscally responsible
government the old-fashioned 19th
century sense of liberal
free markets
and
what i would consider
a recklessly corrupt view of government
and private industry working together
rather than answer that that is my
opinion i think that's a huge factor in
neoliberalism and what was both what was
successful and what was unsuccessful but
it was the idea of what the relationship
between government and the private
sector was so that goes beyond the the
specific claim about deregulation but
this is really a broader idea that big
business and the government can be
friends so you know one symptom of that
was that governments including the
united states they stopped enforcing
anti-trust laws they stopped seeing
monopoly and corporate power as their
enemy which it had been at least since
the 1930s
uh
yeah
um so there were there were a lot of
kind of cultural changes and government
okay so this has been a digression but i
do think it was worth doing because in
the year 2021 it's not like i can just
refer to tony blairism and expect you
guys to know what the [ __ ] i'm talking
about or what tony blair had to do with
neoliberalism all right i would say that
tony blair is probably
the purest example of what
uh
neoliberalism really means that he is
kind of the perfect example of
neoliberalism now you know by contrast
if you really get into the details of
who bill clinton was what he represented
and what he did politically it's kind of
like well in some ways he was neoliberal
but not others so again
i'm not even saying this as a good or a
bad thing but i would not describe bill
clinton in the same way and again i
think bill clinton actually has written
some books but none of them are a
manifesto for neoliberalism the way uh
tony blair's book was so great someone
in the audience says oh yeah tony blair
i have his poster on my wall lol
okay so look again i digress from this
point before
i cannot say there are zero human beings
on planet earth with our billions of
people who really admire tony blair and
own his book and hold it up and talk oh
the stakeholder society by twenty but
this is their manifesto for a better
future right i cannot say there's nobody
who has uh you know a poster of tony
blair how many people support tony
blair's you know again kind of narrowly
defined idea of neoliberalism
and how many people support karl marx
how many people support bernie sanders
or aoc or let's let's be honest mao
zedong
joseph stalin like the extreme left
today in 2021 is way more popular than
tony blair and guys we can put this into
you know a kind of comparative
perspective what were the big political
issues in the year 2020. i know that was
a long time ago one year ago
you know if you think about the race
riots that broke out the riots in
response to police violence
there were very loud very prominent
communist voices there were very loud
very prominent anarchist voices
the blm organization
since restricted strictly strictly
defined
they openly said that they were marxists
and that that kind of came out 2019 2020
the extent to which that really was a
marxist organization the founders were
marxist
you know that connection there so i mean
you know the year 2020 if you look at
all the ideologies that were blossoming
and that were contending to capture the
public's attention in response to uh
protests concerning initially uh police
brutality and as you may know it then
spilled on to question racism more
generally racism against indigenous
people the history of genocide the
history of slavery you know the names of
uh sports teams that's a whole year ago
it's easy to forget you know should the
cleveland indians baseball team continue
to call the cleveland islands so anyone
who lives through that could say oh yeah
you know there are significant numbers
of communists and anarchists out there
okay sorry um where were the
utilitarians
did anyone did anyone see any protests
people carry the utilitarian flag were
there utilitarians out there
that was a natural vegan's former
political identity before she started
calling herself a neoliberal she
identified as a utilitarian and a
consequence what is the utilitarian
solution to the pressing political
problems of her day tell me
some people feel that the united states
should build a wall
should build a wall between themselves
mexico
what would the utilitarian position be
on that what was the consequence it's
complete horseshit okay so what is what
is the neoliberal position now that
she's switched you know what why was
there no neoliberal voice in those
protests and i don't just mean like on
the street but even like in the newsroom
like at the cnn broadcast center where
they interview some person and you know
they predominantly they
interview people with phds and other
kind of elevated so they're either have
a phd or they're a former employee of
the state department or some [ __ ] or
they're a congressman okay so where
where were the neoliberals in the whole
year 2020 there were all these political
issues what was the neoliberal position
on the history of slavery and genocide
and statues of the name of the cleveland
indians and race riots and police
brutality why did
neo-liberalism not have a voice
the banality the irrelevance of
neoliberalism the politics in our day is
shocking because in case you didn't know
during my lifetime neoliberalism has
been one of the most successful
political ideologies it's one of the
most successful political ideologies of
the last hundred years
it was successful
right up to the moment when it failed
and now it's [ __ ] discredited
forgotten to an amazing extent i'm sorry
tony blair himself even if tony blair
were the only neoliberal in the history
of planet earth which he's not
neoliberals with a much broader
phenomenon but tony blair personally was
an incredibly successful politician and
he was imitated by other politicians all
around the world for a whole generation
right so it was incredibly successful
and now it is gone now it's more
marginal than the communists and the
socialists
or the anarchists or a lot of other
voices that that also is you know
so i just mentioned so by the way before
i said
you know it's important to be honest
about your own kind of origin story for
how you got interested in these things
what it is you read or what movie you've
seen or some of that uh you know in my
own relationship with melissa
more than a year ago melissa said to me
she was going to read karl marx's
communist manifesto so is that closer to
two years now
okay so way back in 2019 melissa said
she was going to read the economy's
manifesto of by the way we're not
communists
guess we're anti-communists but you know
so much of our own reading overlapped
this and i was like
okay all right we're gonna do
we're gonna do fundamental
fundamental philosophy and history of
marxism and communism okay and i kind of
blew the dust off of those books and at
that time i did make several youtube
videos talking about marcus and
consciousness so here we are two years
later and she finally finished doing the
reading um no i mean really sorry there
there have been different uh
distractions and dramas in this
relationship but laziness has been an
issue okay
she's she's safe i mean she would not
deny and she would affirm that yes her
own her own laziness and lack of work
that has been an issue
um but given that she finally did catch
up on that and she caught up on it after
finishing reading several books about
the horrors of communism and trying i
get a hold of the book but it doesn't
matter don't worry about it anyway
they've seen the books before they know
we have a lot of books on our shelf on
this stuff
um
you know
so now within this relationship
it's something talked about again um we
talked about it about two years ago when
she started doing that and and uh
you know and now now we're kind of kind
of looking again oh that's interesting
naco clarifies that nacho
the the commenter known as nacho is in
fact female not male so you could have
gone with the name not yet
okay okay hear me out on this instead of
nacho not yet you see what i'm saying
you see what i'm saying
feminine ending to the word
no
[Laughter]
or would it be nacho wet no no you want
to keep the o ending
all right sorry i'll just uh take it
home this is good a moment today but i
just say in terms i think it is
important for everyone to be honest
about
why you're thinking about this at all
why it's relevant in your own life and
then of course also why it's relevant to
politics on
on on planet earth all right
right so ryan michael's comments
now ryan could be male or could be
female
yeah
there's also an example it's a woman's
name once small um yeah there was that
one hollywood actress it was a woman
named brian i remember the there was a
woman on star trek i i'm not a star trek
fan but i remember no and but i remember
the time thinking
really you know i'm sorry i haven't
anyway um anyway so ryan michael perhaps
male preps email comments that uh he or
she remembers the backlash a natural
vegan got from her videos against blm
last year and then says maybe that's
sweeter politically right i mean
you know and i wouldn't
i wouldn't ridicule her for that you
know what i mean i think that's a
sincere thing that people go through i
mean i think a lot of people
maybe at first they felt that blm was a
completely positive thing i mean the
actual catchphrase you know what i mean
that draws you in and then you start to
see who those people are and what their
agenda really is and what's going on and
you maybe start to criticize and
reconsider you know what what is going
on in the far left um
[Music]
you know i know someone who identifies
as a conservative and who admitted to me
that he supports uh joe biden more than
donald trump you know like i mean
obviously now it's comparing it's
comparing apples to oranges it's
comparing what joe biden's been doing in
the last year to what donald trump it's
like yeah well that's not really
surprising because joe biden is a
moderate conservative
what are you gonna say like you know but
but i mean those those types of things
you know i you know um you guys probably
know i have some appreciation for joe
biden some um i am probably further to
the left than joe biden on on some
issues at least but there are there are
some issues i'm very happy with joe
biden on you know and you know when i
talked about bernie sanders it's like
well there were some issues i was
further left than bernie sanders on but
there were a lot of issues and further
to the right on than bernie sanders and
you know so i mean when you deal with
things in that kind of nuanced way and
don't deal with these kind of jejune
self-instantiating and self-justifying
political categories that's the way
people think about socialism right oh
well socialism which just instantiates
itself and justifies okay and now i'm
just going to evaluate whether things
are good or bad by whether or not they
fall into this category that we've
called socialism so it's a fundamentally
religious way of i think in politics
anyway this is digressing from saying
yeah it may be i mean maybe ryan is
correct that was a turning point for
swayze and her videos would be more
honest and more interesting and more
rewarding if she said that like you know
look let's say she got this criticism of
blm maybe she went and watched a
particular documentary movie maybe she
read a particular book you know what i
mean
there's a book i haven't bought because
i don't have time for it i can get it
off of amazon
uh i'll give you guys the link for this
just if you're interested but this is a
book by a guy who's considered
um
right wing
what is it called
i think his name is
here we go i got the link so the title
is unmasked uh inside antifa's radical
plan to destroy democracy so now this
guy is all right how much of this how
much of this link do i have to post i
think this will work sorry you know when
when you get a really long url
anyway you know so this guy is
considered some kind of horrible
right-wing person but i gotta tell you
i've listened to interviews he's done
and so on i've heard his point of view
and i thought he was raising a lot of
worthwhile warnings where he just he
just basically traced back the pamphlets
going around with these organizations
well who's publishing the pamphlets who
is behind these organizations that
sometimes describe themselves as
anarchists
sometimes as communists sometimes they
hyphenate it and you know guess what you
know these are pretty terrifying
hardcore communist revolutionary people
this is what their agendas you know i
felt that was a really worthwhile
sincere thing even if the guy is a bit
of a right-wing wig nut or something
like even if he personally has some some
defects of character so you know
i'm just saying it is possible that a
natural vegan read that very book you
know it's possible she read one of these
books looking at what's really going on
in the left wing and what is what is
their demanding so i mean likewise you
know i've given the example of so-called
mmt you know there are all these things
that could could lead to um a deeper
reconsideration of one's affiliation
with their flirtation with the left
all right scrolling ahead here
okay here's a question for melissa
did melissa have friends that got into
radical feminism lots of women fall into
these theories of patriarchy and then
turn and become traditionalists
so
i think the answer is no he wants you to
stand up do you come to the position my
roommates majored in women's studies
i would say she was more of a feminist
but
i'm just going to be honest i i didn't
really talk about i had very shallow
relationships with people in college so
you know why i didn't even get into that
you know discussing
political and philosophical feminist
broadly speaking melissa's life was not
a hotbed of profound political
controversy before she
got into bed literally with me i mean
you know i think that you know part of
what makes our relationship work or what
made it eventuate in the first place you
know was uh
you know that melissa had this desire to
have a more meaningful life and to
really be engaged with the seriousness
of these things but the people she was
surrounded by high school university or
in the workplace or otherwise there
wasn't any uh you know there wasn't any
engagement of these things and
no offense but we could say that with
your family too you didn't grow up in a
politically
active or divide you know your family
they were not people who were seriously
discussing you know the news and
politics of the day you know you just
probably speak not every family is like
that so you guys know my own family
background is is very different
so i think melissa was you know yearning
for life that was more serious engaged
in this was but uh i have had i have had
other girlfriends
and no i mean one of my ex-girlfriends
maybe two of them even that was a really
important turning point in their life i
remember one of my ex-girlfriends she
related to me how she was drawn into
these left-wing views on um
the witch trials in medieval europe
these really kind of dramatized
feminists yeah yeah trying to make women
during the period of witch trials in
europe into this you know into this kind
of saintly cause
and uh and kind of militant
feminine feminist paganism
and you know and then uh and she got
drawn into this stuff and then she just
reached a breaking point where she
realized how dishonest this whole
literature was literature written mostly
by people of phds you know this
ostensibly respectable kind of feminist
literature and her her connection to uh
to the feminist left you know broke
apart
yeah um
[Music]
i got to tell you there was a lot wrong
with that girlfriend
as sympathetic as that story might be
um
yeah
i blame her more than i blame the the
people with phds in that equation yeah
well we can see that
was yeah
with women's studies it was an english
literature course that was
similar to that we were talking about
the women's house it was a women's
literature course so
but that was basically my exposure to
that it failed to radicalize you this
one yeah yeah sure
all right so good good question off
topic but in some ways right on topic
so yes some orion comments again
interjections into british con pardon me
interjections into british politics by
tony blair today are met with derision
by the general public yes and it is
remarkable the extent to which
you know tony blair's star has faded and
he has become you know
uh yeah
he has become a laughingstock or just as
he is not taken seriously neither in the
present tense nor in the past that's an
important political leader
[Music]
okay so here is a um
here is an interesting comment by rory
tobori
he says quote marxist means a lot of
different things to a lot of different
people to some it doesn't even mean
anti-capitalist nearly critical of
capitalism can't put so much stock into
a theoretical court okay so rory
you know i understand where you're
coming from here but i really have to
challenge you in your own life
in politics and religion and everything
else i think you have to let go of this
habit of mind of this tendency of
thought okay you don't get to say
islam means a lot of different things to
a lot of different people you don't get
to say buddhism means a lot of different
things to a lot of people okay you know
islam is defined by the writings
attributed to the prophet muhammad the
quran and the hadith you know what i
mean we can talk about what is and is
not islamic very precisely and very
definitively and that's it and nobody
gets to change it you get to make up
your own philosophy you know you can
have a new religion or a new movement or
something
but no there is one definition of what
the islamic religion is forever you know
[ __ ] deal with it
you know
obviously like when you're talking to
muslims
they will get incredibly defensive about
slavery about the status of women about
how many wives the prophet muhammad had
look it up it's more than you think he
had a lot of lives okay some of them
very short term some of them didn't work
out a lot a lot of marriages in that
guy's life um you know the sex life of
the prophet muhammad in these things
guess what you know everybody gets to
have their own opinion nobody gets to
have their own facts you know this is
what islam is and this is what the life
of the historical figure of muhammad was
and that's it so no
it's it's really a very false mode of
thought to begin or end by saying
marxist means a lot of things a lot of
people now i'd point out even in this
discussion for those of you who've been
here
for the whole 36 minutes
and by the way i encourage you to hit
the thumbs up button i encourage you to
share the link if you know people on
facebook you should join us on we should
have more thumbs up at this point 36
minutes and you can change your mind
later if you decide it's a bad live
stream later you can undo the thumbs up
you can hit thumbs down instead you can
do it you change your mind but any
thumbs up we'll have some more people
join the discussion and as you can see
i'm happy to i'm happy to reply to this
okay but look i began this video now 36
minutes ago
by really clarifying what neoliberalism
means which is something unnatural being
fails to do right
you know there is one narrow definition
there is one meaning of neoliberalism
and it's not useful it's also kind of
not fair to say oh well everybody gets
to define neoliberals in their own way
there is a hilarious moment in a natural
vegan's most recent video where she
talks about neoliberalism as a political
identity as if it were equivalent to
homosexuality or transgenderism where
she says that other people should not
use a definition of neoliberalism that
they've taken off the internet out of a
dictionary or out of an encyclopedia
instead of
listening to the lived experience of
people who identify as neoliberal
you can't make this stuff up
i wouldn't why you know this is
hilarious on many difficulties but in
the same way like a gay rights activist
could say look you don't get to define
homosexuality based on what's in a book
you have to listen to the lived
experience of people who identify as
homosexual now obviously we're talking
about something that's that's the kind
of complicated emotional psychological
phenomenon
you know there are people there are
people who identify as gay but who have
sex with members of the opposite gender
from time to time or even regular like
you know okay yeah all right so there
isn't something that's simplistic you
know we all kind of have some um if
you're over the age of 30 you have some
kind of sense of why there are sort of
gray areas around what is homosexual
identity and that you kind of have to be
willing to listen to people who are
uh you know
somewhere along the dotted line of what
what these terms mean
but it's completely laughable it's
completely ridiculous to say no there is
no one definition of neoliberalism you
have to listen to the lived experience
not the lived experience of people who
are neoliberal but people who identify
as neoliberal that is hilarious to me
and no you can never do that with
marxism with islam with anything else
like this no we have to deal with
exclusive definitions
and when people are excluded by those
definitions they get to make up new
words you know they hyphenate them or
what have you i mean there's nothing
wrong with that either but you know um
okay so let's so
i'm really just doing this as an example
but let's give an example of something
that is a completely bedrock central
definitive aspect of marxism
marxists believe and marx himself
believed and marks himself said in des
capital marxists believe that it is evil
for the owner of a company to profit by
appropriating the quote unquote surplus
value
of what's generated by the employee all
right so that is that is the that is a
fundamental central definitive aspect of
marxism now somebody in this audience
can say well marxism means a lot of
different things a lot of different
people
okay now what this entails what they
want to do about it we could get into
this a great one i had a video recently
showing you um
young women
in revealing attire
at walt disney world
walt disneyland the walt disney theme
parks these are young women
they're often wearing not a whole lot
more than a swimsuit you know the the
the one who's the this
the female character from aladdin i
forget you know the princess jasmine
from aladdin they're wearing a very
revealing uh the they have these young
women dressed up as pocahontas so i was
criticizing this for political reasons
if you know what i mean
and i think that you do but you know
there's another whole line of critique
there because when i was googling this
and getting this information those women
are paid shockingly little these women
are being paid next to nothing and by
definition all of them are good looking
enough that they could be working as a
cocktail waitress they could be working
in the hooters chain
of uh
sexually provocative restaurants if
you're not american you don't know what
hooters is you don't ever want to know
you don't you do not want to know what
that restaurant chain is um they could
be working in las vegas in an array of
jobs that are approximately as sexually
exploited as doing this role at
disneyland and making a lot more money
now you could add on they could be doing
only fans they could be involved in
pornography or you could go further but
it was like just if you look at the same
type of role of wearing this kind of
revealing costume showing off your body
and doing chit chat with customers they
could be earning far more money
anywhere other than disneyland they're
paid shockingly little
now how do you take karl marx's
principle and apply it to the situation
what
what is the surplus
value
they're generating
and what is the value of their labor
when abstracted from when removed from
the context provided by the
multi-billion dollar investment of
building a theme park around it right
like
you get into some really simple
questions now you may say this is a
ridiculous example no it's not
every example is just ridiculous to try
to figure out like this this
philosophical concept like the idea is
that you as a worker are generating 30
an hour worth of value and you're only
being paid 15 an hour or maybe 12 an
hour whatever being paid that we can
calculate this and then we can figure
out the extent of the theft or crime
being committed by the owner well the
owner in this case has to up own and
operate the whole disneyland theme park
just so that you standing there and
smiling at people is perceived to have
some kind of value you know like you
doing this in the middle of a grassy
field
it's just not the same without that
without that context people are not
going to pay these amounts of money to
just come chit chat with you while
you're wearing a costume in a grassy
field
you know
every job in this way
if you are an employee relies on a
context of investment and risk and the
the money going into other things that
that make your make your employment
possible sometimes over prior decades
and it's over prior centuries uh
my point here just being
no it's really important to work with
definitive and ultimately oppressive
definitions of terms
and you know you shouldn't be so
attached to them if like if you are a
marxist and you say that you
fundamentally don't believe in x y and
zed that karl marx said okay then don't
call yourself a marxist you'll call
yourself some kind of post-marxist
left-wing person make up a new term put
some hyphens in it um you know
come up with something that describes
what your position is reasonably and you
can explain to people what your
relationship is intellectually
politically to karl marx to what extent
you were
inspired by him or reacted against him
that's that's uh that's completely
reasonable
okay so
one little objection here from wicked
energy who again could be male or female
as a broadcaster you are actually in the
position of attributing genders to
people all the time wicked energy says
simply uh here's a grammatical error
careful now look at energy quote isn't
there completely different
interpretations of islam
what are you interpreting
so this is properly speaking a begging
the question
fallacy right oh yes there's more than
one interpretation of
the quran and the hadith
set down by the prophet muhammad which
defines the religion right
yeah so you don't get to have your own
version of islam now again i'm sorry to
insult you but have you looked into what
the differences are between the
different legal schools of
interpretation they're called the
schools of jurisprudence and islam oh
well
under what circumstances exactly do you
cut off one hand and one foot from
someone for being a thief like this is
what you're into okay yes there are
ambiguities left in the uh the law set
down by the prophet muhammad to be
interpreted but i mean dude
but no the point is there
yes there is more than one
interpretation but what it is an
interpretation of
that is definitive that is islam per se
and that you know that can't be disputed
or reinvented infinitely so you know
likewise legitimately there's more than
one interpretation of karl marx but what
is there to be interpreted right
all right just scrolling through the
scrolling through the comments
all right so wicked energy comments i i
do also think this is actually
interesting he says it makes sense that
a natural vegan changed from objectivism
to neoliberalism so that's actually
interesting in a few different ways
her public
her public political identity was
utilitarianism
but i actually think it's quite an
interesting suggestion that her real
engagement was with objectivism that
would explain a lot
probably i mean just be honest i think
that's actually a brilliant suggestion
maybe
her real position
is that she is an objectivist
and that she used to present her
objectivism
as this confusing set of claims about
utilitarianism and consequentialism
and now she's rationalizing and
presenting it as neoliberalism
so you can let me know wicked energy if
you've ever heard her identify with
objectivism or the philosophy of anne
rand
but that would be an interesting
[Music]
yeah that would be an interesting
revelation
um
i
chilling plot twist okay
um
look guys
one of the things i try to train people
in my audience to do is to not reason
politics through beginning from the sky
and then concluding with the ground not
to begin from abstract diagrams on a
chalkboard and to impose those abstract
oceans on reality in the real world
um the big question here for the past
present and future is what is the
meaning of socialism what is the meaning
of capitalism and what is the future of
a society that ineluctably will involve
aspects of each
if i take one young man who grew up in
kansas
and i send him to live in japan for
years this is a young man who's lived
his whole life in kansas all he's ever
known is kansas in the united states of
america and i take one young woman who
has been born and raised in new orleans
and another young man who has been born
and raised in detroit and another one
who's been born and raised in oregon and
again each of these people they spent
their whole life
just in this one city united states and
these four people
i said two of them to live in japan for
a year and two of them to live in
denmark
[Music]
at the end of this experiment
i bring them back and i interview them
and let's just say hypothetically all
four of them say wow that they're really
impressed with this
foreign society they've been living in
they say you know what whether it's
japan or denmark these people have a
really great economy they have a really
great system of government there are a
lot of things they're doing right that
we're doing wrong in the united states
there are a lot of ways in which
everything just works better here all
four of them come back and say that they
think the united states could be
improved by imitating some of the things
or maybe everything
that's going on in japan
and denmark respectively
and then i asked those people the four
people
why do you think that is
it's completely possible
that one person who went to japan would
say oh it's because of socialism
and that the other person who went to
japan would say oh it's because of
capitalism
it's completely coherent to analyze
what japan is doing right and in what
ways japanese pardon me in what ways
japanese society is superior to american
society
you can analyze that
as being because of
socialism
and you can analyze it in terms of being
because of capitalism you can make both
arguments and you can even explain
exactly the same phenomena in japan by
indicating it as well explaining or
interpreting it as either socialism or
capitalist and we can say the exact same
thing about denmark someone can go to
denmark live for a year in denmark come
back to united states america and they
can say denmark is better than the
united states because of
socialism the role of socialism in the
society the extent to which it's social
social services that are social aspects
of the government aspects of the economy
that are socialists
and they could come back and make the
argument on the basis of capitalism that
you know the danish are getting
capitalism right okay this is a way of
thinking about politics that doesn't
proceed from the sky to the ground it it
proceeds from the ground to the sky
right like we're working with real world
tangible examples
with human faces and human costs and
human implications we're understanding
those
and then we're questioning to what
extent does this fit into a category
that ultimately just works as a kind of
catchphrase or convenient designation
like it's not the case that the things
that are right with japan
are right
because the japanese people became
slaves to the ideology of socialism and
tried to live up to its dictates it's
also the people of japan did not become
slaves to the ideology of capitalism or
free-market liberalism and try to live
up to its dictates and this becomes
clear
when you compare multiple capitalist
societies or multiple social societies
um
there's no doubt the elephant in the
room here is china right the 1.3 billion
population elephant in the room is china
have you ever lived in china
would you rather live in china than iran
i'm pro-democracy
i think democracy is better than
dictatorship i think democracy is better
than communism
iran
is more democratic
than china
iran has some democracy china has none
guess what
i'd rather live in china
i'm completely pro-democracy i can think
it's uh
immoral to live in a city in china and
where you ask oh who's the mayor
nobody voted for him nobody elected him
who's the governor nobody voted nobody
liked him who's the prime minister of
the president
nobody in their government is elected
it's ridiculous to me to me this is a
moral problem right i think democracy is
morally superior but i don't think iran
is superior to china right well you get
into other
muslim majority countries how about
saudi arabia or something there are
muslim countries so awful
politically
that you could say they would be
improved by adopting the system of
government that china now has
okay so for someone who's an
anti-communist i'm a total
anti-communist right this is admitting
that these examples in the real world
exist on a paradoxical spectrum
there are some capitalist societies that
are worse than some communist societies
there are some undemocratic societies
that are better than some democratic
societies right these are the paradoxes
we live with so you know there is a
sense in which we can say what is the
[ __ ] point of these abstract
categories that we treat as being more
real than reality where we start by
putting them on the chalkboard and
reasoning from those as first principles
instead of reasoning from empirical
experience in all its richness and all
it's in all its contradictions right so
this is this is the kind of thing i'm
trying to
train my audience to be sensitive to
because that's not the way in every
country i've lived in that's not the way
we're trained to think in school that's
not the way we're trained to think in
church or in a buddhist monastery most
people pick up the habit of life of
thinking in terms of the abstraction
first and then you take the confusing
mess of facts in empirical reality and
try to
force it to fit into the abstractions
now look again just to uh make my own
bias clear
would i rather live in switzerland than
in communist china do you think
switzerland is a better place to have a
child in research of course of course i
think switzerland's a better country and
democracy is a huge part of that and
switzerland has its own mix of democracy
capitalism and socialism it can be taken
as a model
it's not utopia it's not paradise it's
not perfect right but i'm just saying my
point here is not that i think life in
china is absolutely wonderful
it to iran though compare china to iran
compare china to
um
afghanistan and in case you don't know
afghanistan used to be a communist
country there's a parallel
universe you know you can make up a
hypothetical scenario and ask would
afghanistan be better today
if they had remained a communist country
for all these decades instead of going
through what they've been through in
these decades
all right that's that's real politics
baby
and that's what you'll never hear on cnn
that's what you'll never hear on
you know even vice you know vice
television they think they roll up their
sleeves and deal with repo they don't
you know those those are the really hard
questions we have to get into and that's
the kind of frame of reference you need
to have when then turning your attention
to uh you know this kind of very
practical question but the past present
and future of neoliberalism for the
united states of america which again
shout out to a natural vegan i thank her
for you know uh
for raising these questions ryan's it's
a lot more meaningful than um
it's it's a lot more meaningful for for
her audience than than what she has been
peddling for the last many years
matt
angio no matt engino says
both the right and the left seem to be
hell bent on destroying the environment
dot dot dot aside from veganism what do
you see is the best ways to be an
environmentalist under the current
consumption based system okay i'm going
to turn on the fan for one second here
guys
yes you can see the beads of sweat i'm
not nervous it's just hot it's healthy
oh momentary
what where do you guys think i'm gonna
go with this some of you have been
watching my youtube channel for more
than five years
what do you think i think melissa i'll
tell you i i think nobody can write
sit up here just give me
no no you're wrong see any any let's
let's check the peanut gallery you guys
yeah yeah
melissa was joking that was that was
good any any uh any other predictions
about what my uh
about my uh so just there was a there
was a comment somebody said quote i
heard china is a dump
and that was that was censored i just
had to click like it censors things i
had to click no don't censor it you know
what i mean i get an option so there you
go
and a lot of ways uh a lot of ways these
are okay any uh anyone got any
prediction what is going to be my own
now i've got to find the comment again
the question from matt and giorno
uh that both the left and the right seem
to be hell bent on destroying the
environment aside from veganism what do
you see
oh somehow
oh so some people have been watching my
channel one guy says satellites to block
the sun satellites oh you guys some of
you guys have been watching this channel
for many years all right but i'm going
to deal with the more more fun i'm not
going to particular examples i'm going
to deal with a particular uh i'm going
to deal with a broad profound uh
question being raised here okay um
look matt this actually my answer has
everything to do with neoliberals
okay everything
so i was once at a buddhist monastery
where a political discussion of this
kind was happening
and my antagonist the guy was disputing
oh see now what you're rolling you don't
you don't think this is going to be a
good anecdote because we're going to put
as much
we talked politics
what's a joke
melissa looked disappointed when i
started mentioning buddhism
[Laughter]
okay so there was a guy at this buddhist
monastery and he was actually quite at a
senior level in the american government
uh he was one of the administrators of
the american of virgin islands so you
guys may not know this america it's
mostly known for being 50 states but
there are some parts of america that are
not states there are other kinds of
dominions and territories and they have
very different systems of government and
nobody complains because normally they
have a very small population and you
know it is what it is but he was one of
the people who was governing or running
the american virgin islands so this is a
guy who was a career politician who had
actually risen to quite a high level so
just that's that is quite a senior
position he probably had a whole series
of positions of government before being
given this this position in the virgin
islands
um
and he said to me something that was
really a totally sincere neoliberal view
of the world that guy was quite elderly
i'm certain he's dead of old age by now
just many years ago passed um he was not
vegan
but anyway he said that on this
environmental thing he feels that there
is no problem because the way government
works this is a neoliberal view
he he says the way government works is
that you invite the stakeholders
together
remember tony blair's book the
stakeholders say you invite the
stakeholders together everyone wants a
different piece of the pie and then
government provides the kind of round
table where you work out a compromise so
that everyone's happy everyone feels
they're getting you know
they're compete there are competing
human interests for the use of the
environment for example of forest for
example okay oh
i was in the room i was in the room
mostly as a scholar of buddhism that's
why i was there but nobody suspects
nobody suspects that i actually have
this really deep you know history with
political science that oh
now you're in my you know now you're in
my wheelhouse i gave this very
passionate denunciation of the
neoliberal position i totally weighed in
on this guy and i think it stunned
everyone in the room it certainly
stunned him
and i said oh so your position is that
everyone sits down at a round table they
decide what are we going to do with this
forest and some people are from the pulp
and paper industry and some people are
from you know the water industry some
people live in the town down the road
and they don't want the water to be
polluted and you know they
gave a bunch of examples some people
from the lumber industry and they want
this some people want some old growth
forest for tourism there are these
humans and then you just you just take
the average of human convenience
and then guess what
the whole forest is cut down
who is there sitting at that table
to represent the monkeys
who is there sitting at that table to
represent the pigs or the wild boars or
the bears or the birds who is there at
that table that represents the interest
of the tree itself to continue standing
who represents the atmosphere or the
water cycle it's like nobody because all
the human interests you're talking about
government satisfying are just in
exploiting the environment you know
all of the human interests you say that
democracy in this neoliberal format
adequately represents all of those
concern human beings getting rich
through the devastation of natural
resources you know um and and i i
concluded my you know i had to speak
briefly uh there was not a live stream
this was a debate in a buddhist
monastery but you know um i was saying
the illusion of neoliberalism is that
there is a balance but what you're
talking about is the balance between
competing interests who are bidding to
cut down the forest it is not the
balance between cutting down the forest
and having the forest regenerate or you
know the balance between
different types of wild animals you know
wanting to survive and so on so remember
i gave a very passionate uh argument
okay
in the british empire tradition this is
a very deep very fundamental problem in
government um
you know canada australia new zealand
especially
you could debate whether or not it's a
little bit different
in a state like oregon where the
government itself directly owns the
forest which i also find very morally
troubling the percentage of the state of
oregon that is owned by the government
is shocking really i'm sorry from memory
i don't know but it's something like
more than 70 percent of the lands owned
by
and it's still not ecological paradise
you know there are these really weird uh
by the way hong kong hong kong is a
capitalist uh democracy before it was
taken over by china the government owned
100 of land
uh there were a couple sorry i shouldn't
say it was about 90 99 there were a
couple little patches that weren't known
for the government but basically the
government owned everything and they
just leased and rented it out to
everyone hong kong was a society that
was capitalist from the grass up
but the grass roots down was socialist
you know so yeah yeah so you know i paid
rent to my landlord and he paid rent to
the government and there's a big gap do
you know how much rent one paid but
everyone was a renter in hong kong so it
was a total leasing and renting system
where nobody owned the land just given
this as an example for how really
actually how much variation there is oh
ah
just imagine okay
a delivery i almost never hear that
there you go
more more proof that capitalism works is
it a book
perhaps it is yours
oh
oh oh that's definitely what it is okay
great so then put it over there if it
was a book if it had been a book that
were delivered i'd open it on the screen
okay i'll put it put it in my community
but now i can't it'll be that'll be
fussy all right cool
um so that's actually the illustration
for the front cover of my book if you
guys didn't know i'm writing a book we
believe that's what just arrived in the
mail it's the original so i'm going to
try to photograph it again at higher
quality to be the cover of my book i am
trying to finish a book on politics
called uh the title is no more
manifestos all right
okay so look i think i have answered
that question
i could go on and on
but
on a very fundamental level what is the
relationship between government and the
land
what is the relationship between
government and the biome i don't want to
use language that's stupid what is the
relation between government and wild
animals you know
these are really profound flaws in
democracy quote-unquote democracy in the
british parliamentary tradition um now
you know just say very briefly there's a
different idea of democracy that comes
from ancient athens there's a different
idea of democracy comes from ancient
rome and ancient sparta there is more
than one idea of democracy but that
british parliamentary system of
democracy there is no representation of
and no interest in um
you know what neoliberals would call
ecological services
and uh
i'm sorry but it's a huge fundamental
flaw now
just very briefly how have we dealt with
how we cope with this this flaw
basically by private foundations buying
land and turning them into parks turning
them into nature preserves you know
governments do that also uh the
government just decides to declare
something of tourist attraction
basically
this is the only reason why the
environment hasn't been totally
destroyed in parliamentary democracies
and that's basically taking land outside
of
um
the scope of parliament and of democracy
making it into something like disneyland
that exists as a kind of fiefdom unto
itself so which also from my perspective
is not really a solution you know this
is a kind of non-solution but that is
how we've coped um
you know france likes to boast that they
have a huge amount of land under this
kind of
conservatorship i don't know what you'd
go you know uh and it's it's a joke bro
i mean
go and go and visit the um the wild boar
hunting grounds in the south of france
that they describe as a national park
you know there is no there there is no
ecosystem you know i'm sorry but you
know what what actually happens in these
things it's a huge fundamental problem
um so by the way anyway okay i i could
go on and on but i do care about ecology
but no i mean i would really say one of
the most profound fundamental problems
uh with what we commonly call democracy
in the west is is this and i've got to
tell you also i think it's an incredibly
simple problem to solve i don't think
there's anything sophisticated or
difficult about you know i mean like
how do you integrate transgender people
into the military it's difficult really
it's not something you can you know some
people say oh it's easy
you know look at you know it's easy i
mean no matter how good your intentions
are what is going to be the standard of
what is going to be the
lived experience of transgender people
in the military this is not going to be
easy to iron out guys
including you guys may not know this
google it wherever you live around the
world what is the status of women with
breast implants in the military
if you're if you're a biological woman
you're a born female guess what there
are restrictions and limits on the size
of breast implant you can have
artificial breast implant or whether or
not you can have them at all and it's
different between every country now
there are reasons for this you know like
for the military they have pragmatic
concerns about having women with
enormous fake breasts on duty it's so
this is this this is a complex hard to
solve problem you know really um it's
it's hilarious oh you know in most of my
recent videos i've been talking a lot
about circumcision as an example how are
you actually going to eliminate
circumcision in the 21st century
difficult problem but you know this the
the politics of land also by the way the
politics of indigenous people i find
incredibly easy uh problems to solve the
reason why we haven't solved them is
that the type of person who's in power
in a neoliberal western democracy
doesn't want to solve them
all right so a lot of great uh comments
so i'm going to try to run through these
sasha dixon comments now sasha
could be a man's name could be one's
name have you known yeah because
yes sasha right in eastern europe
especially in russia etc um there you
get a lot of men named sasha it's a i
believe it says a a an abbreviation for
alexander some of that yeah anyway uh so
sasha says sorry this isn't about the
current topic do you think you could
make a video about feminism and your
thoughts on different types of feminism
i've done maybe two videos on that
i would like to say apropos of nothing i
remember one of my videos about feminism
was made before i got together with
melissa in response to
a woman who was trying to sleep with me
i just like
says i had very unfeminist reasons i was
completely honest in it but i remember
there was this woman who was writing to
me and she was kind of interested in you
know getting she's like well you know
i'd really like to make i'd really like
you to make a video talking about your
views on feminism and i did not say
anything in that video to pander to her
or flirt with her i was like oh yeah you
know i just kind of recognized i'd never
made a video stating my position of
feminism and i did my usual did my usual
act
i i have no regrets that the
relationship that the romance with that
young woman didn't didn't work
um
you know how we roll here at a bella
sale
um another question eizel these
questions are off topic but what are
your views on cultural relativism
somewhat related to what you're
discussing now and where in canada do
you live so you should be able to tell
from the angle of the sun that i live on
the west coast again
i joke but yeah so we're on the west
coast in a small city called victoria
but victoria actually is the political
capital of this province and the
province is larger than most countries
in europe it's an enormous province but
a province with actually a very weak
economy most people do not realize that
this is an economically tiny place
although geographically massive and we
live at sea level on the west coast so
that's part of why it's so warm here uh
anyway sorry a great question uh
cultural relativism so look i mean i
think i've coined the phrase uh in
response to my most recent video of
cultural nihilism
uh now
look ask another question if you think
i'm wrong but i think that my position
on
cultural relativism is completely
explicitly articulated
in the last two videos i did about
multiculturalism i mean i think if you
put those two videos together
i think there were kind of no questions
left
unanswered about that um
so i i'm not uh evading the question but
i do think i made more than two hours of
video really talking about that and it's
a neat term you could say that my
position both in contrast to
multiculturalism and to cultural
relativism is one of cultural nihilism
fundamentally a critique of the culture
of the past with an eye to what will be
the culture of the future
oh so he followed up by saying he's
curious about where i live and how it
influences and shapes reviews okay so
you guys probably will not guess this by
the way thanks for the thumbs up uh
we've got 47 people here it'd be great
if we could have 47 thumbs up again
it'll just help people find the video if
you guys know anyone on twitter who want
to join this conversation share the link
on twitter because if you do it while
the live stream is ongoing people can
join the conversation it's interesting
and maybe they'll hate my channel that's
fine
i can make more enemies i can make more
friends i'm uh i'm cool with either one
so something i wanted to say earlier but
i digress from my digression this this
this reminds me of you know um
for for many years people have talked
about
my tenuous and conflicted
relationship
to the american left you know
they they ask in various ways
in what sense am i left of center or
what is my relationship to left wing and
and by the way often people kind of
embrace me as someone who was anti-left
although few people perceive me as
conservative or right-wing what somehow
people do uh you know but i'm obviously
a critic of a great deal of what's
what's going on in the left and you know
what i would emphasize most of all and
i've done this recently in some of my
personal friendships personal
relationships is look
you may not realize you as a viewer of
this or you being a friend of mine who's
known me for years you may not realize
the extent to which people on the left
refuse to talk to me the extent to which
the left regards me and treats me as a
pariah
it's amazing that the term pariah is not
yet considered politically incorrect by
the way
it's amazing that that's not acceptable
given the uh
you know a pariah is actually the real
meaning is suggesting someone within the
hindu caste system of india someone who
is regarded as untouchable uh someone
you wouldn't touch or talk to or be
associated with because they are so low
they are an outcast
in the in the cast system so yes i could
i could sit here and try to brainstorm
uh less offensive uh terms for than than
pariah probably all of them have have
specific cultural connotations but you
know
i've said recently to a friend of mine
you know
you may not realize the extent to which
left wing people and left of center left
to center people
hate me like really viscerally hate me
and cannot stand to listen to me talk
and cannot be my friend the extent to
which left-wing professors at my
university intensely
hate me you know for example that i have
to deal with that in a situation of
unequal authority you know
um and yeah i'm not criticizing people
for saying you can't imagine this i'm
probably as soon as i've said that a lot
of you are like oh i can imagine that
you know my point is not that it's that
it's hard to imagine but many of the
people in my life they have not
considered the extent to which i am
actively excluded and snubbed and really
hated by the left now i've
many examples and many experiences but
if you're having trouble visualizing it
um
the left wing where i live
is unbelievably pro-palestinian and
anti-israeli to an anti-semitic extent
frankly there's plenty of anti-semitism
on the left the left wing
is anti-police
and anti-prisons to a couple of folks
that have had experiences who would
never talk to me again
i do not believe in abolishing prisons i
think some people need to be in prison
sometimes for a short time i won't
digress too much i think people can go
to prison for three weeks and really
turn their lives around as a result i
think short prison sentences are
underrated people can go to prison get
the message and then be like okay i
gotta i gotta change my way of living i
think short terms can really change
people's lives but sure some people need
to be in prison for 10 years some people
need to be in prison forever i
i'm not an idealist that way
the left
here
probably where you live to wherever
you're watching this they define
themselves as being against the
existence of prisons the left define
existence of borders
you know and then being pro-illegal
immigrant and most of all yes yes y'all
the left where i live the left in the
pacific northwest the united states and
canada the left here is pro-drug
addiction they're in favor of marijuana
of course they're in favor of alcohol
it's not even question they're in favor
of hard drugs like heroin and cocaine
and ecstasy or mdma they're and they're
in favor of antidepressants they're in
favor of living a totally self-indulgent
life this way they're in favor of video
games they're in favor of stamp
collecting they're in favor of skiing
they are in favor of enjoying life in a
way that i'm totally morally opposed to
i'm even against stamp collecting people
i'm half joking
but you know i think that is
aesthetically what a lot of
conservatives respond to positive with
me i think there are a lot of
conservatives who look at me as this
kind of um
defiantly self-disciplined sober figure
who's looking at the left saying you
people are a bunch of degenerates
and i think there are a lot of people on
the left who feel
like they're a degenerate when they're
in my presence and they don't like that
i'm vegan and they don't like that i'm
sober and they don't like that i'm
willing to talk in a real brass tax way
about the reality of war
foreign policy like what joe biden is
doing in afghanistan and india and china
and everything else like you know that
down-to-earth
talking about war in a realistic way
thing there are all these kind of
aspects of my character where the left
feels the kind of danger of just even
allowing themselves to have a
conversation
so many times i mean i if i try to talk
to left-wing people about drug policy
they will get incredibly angry and storm
out of the room before they they cannot
let themselves sit so look the question
was
to what extent are your views shaped by
you know where you live that's the main
way it shapes it and you know i am not
going to sit here and praise
conservative rednecks i had a
conversation with a conservative redneck
um
more than a month ago not not too much
long ago a guy here who's who's vegan
but he is frankly a conservative
and he he jokes about himself that way
too he's he said of his own values that
he's struggling against being a redneck
hippie i thought that was that was a
charming kind of phrase but yeah i was
talking this concern and now
you know i'm not going to praise this
guy to the sky there are a lot of things
he's wrong about but a conservative
redneck right-wing and moderately
right-wing they will
sit and talk to me and listen to me and
they will hear me out and they will just
give me now not to put you finally i
have sat at a table with many of
melissa's relatives like getting into
cousins and aunts and uncles like you
know the larger extent i have sat and i
have talked to those people now what
would you say that they were
conservative attacks
or what do you say they were hippie
right
they were at different points on that
spectrum uh uh
yeah but you know going yeah
yes
no you're right
that's so true that's so sorry so it was
a big round table situation this i
forgot there were some left-wing people
in the room that's true and the
left-wing people they stood there like
it's kind of lim lemon-faced disapproval
there were there were maybe three
left-wing people in the room and then
there were all these conservatives who
were i mean at that time like most of
them they were they were kind of they
weren't right-wing enough to really
support trump they were probably people
who would more support uh i don't know
like george george george bush or
something you know like they were kind
of
conservative republicans but not that
far
not really dumb enough to be a trump
person you know not extremely trump and
but those people were totally delighted
to talk politics with me they would like
they weren't just they weren't just
tolerated they were really animated oh
wow there's this guy with this
so yeah you're right i forgot no it's
true though but the fact that the left
they really stood there and said nothing
yeah yeah yeah i forgot i forgot about
them they were in the room that's right
yeah so yeah wow that's a telling so
anyway there you go there's a really
full answer answer to that uh
that question
all right a slightly tangent uh
attentional question i am working my way
through the through the comments i see
tcat is in the house shout out to tcat
um
what are your thoughts on the recent
vegan society controversy with
pro-intersectional anti-capitalist
trustees quitting due disposed racism
etc okay ryan here's my answer
talent
is scarce
there are very few
talented people you can work with like
look if you go to hollywood and start
making movies which is something i'm
apparently going to do
if you start making movies you think
it's really easy to find talented people
talented hard-working self-disciplined
sober people who are about the film
you're going to end up working with
people and you're like why are you
working with this cocaine addict and
you'll say talent is scarce this is the
best guy i could get to do but both in
front of the camera and behind you're
going to work with terrible people in
how people will ask me probably oh if
you're making this film why didn't you
work with all vegans why didn't you have
an all-vegan cast and crew [ __ ]
kidding me talent is scarce okay now
and why why is talent so scary do you
know anyone who knows a lot about
politics who has a degree in political
science who could play an administrative
role and a leadership role and a public
relations role for a vegan organization
can you think of anyone like that and it
was years long of a proven track record
i think of one person
and it's me
well tell me why didn't the vegan
society recruit me into one of those
positions
during the last couple years how much do
you think they would have had to pay me
do you think i would have been saying
they're like oh no dude 200 thousand
dollars minimum if you want
but
there was uh i'm actually yeah there was
one uh vegan organization it was private
sector that tried to recruit me to do a
pr role um yeah yeah i could talk with
ever yeah yeah yeah very i'm i don't
know how much i just would i want to
anonymize that example that is true
actually to be fair once someone tried
to recruit me
uh we had i had a long skype
conversation with a guy but i decided
against completely but anyway you know
so look talent is scarce and then beyond
that why is talent so scarce is because
people are being excluded without even
being considered in this way right now
look coming back to the title of this
video
and all these issues so same question
how good or how bad a job do you think a
natural vegan would do if she was put in
the same kind of position of
power
but also kind of administration
management and public relations all
those things are involved with running a
vegan foundation i think she'd do a
terrible job she has some redeeming
qualities
but you know
in the whole vegan demi monde i have
very little competition there are very
few people and like the other people you
could even put on the kind of top ten
this way and dealing with i would never
want to work with i would never want to
be in a foundation who's that guy who
does the vegan three minute thursdays
okay
right so like cranky vegan
i think he'd be terrible in that guy i
wouldn't want to be in an organization i
don't want to be associated with him i
don't want to be on the team with him
and he's one of the best i mean he's not
one of the worst he's okay vegan foot
soldier like who else is these people
are all terrible people talent is scarce
so that that's the reality you know and
now like if i did if i tried to put
together 10 people to cooperate with me
in a vegan foundation
probably some of them would be like
conservative christians or something
because like who can you work with you
know who is not a nut job
who is not incompetent and crazy they're
probably people who really disagree with
me on some
religious and political issues but it's
like well you're sober and hard-working
and not great you're not a communist and
you're not a communist you're not a nazi
and you know okay well all right let's
let's try to figure out what's coming
around you know i just mentioned there
are there are vegans who come out of a
hunting background who are more
conservative and christian and stuff
they come out of the critique of duck
hunting and that kind of thing they're
interested in conservation in the forest
i can imagine working with those people
and yeah there are a lot of scary people
you don't want to work with in politics
all right
oh so this shows that i don't actually
watch disney movies i just criticize
them turn of all comments while on the
fleeting topic of aladdin this is
disney's aladdin let's talk about the
scene with a brothel in the movie where
the women all knew atlanta so they get
aladdin runs into or runs through a
broth
deep deep cut
i i have always felt that the sega
genesis aladdin game is really overrated
super nintendo 2. i just mentioned
people worship the aladdin video games
of that era but
it's not so great all right
so tcat says if you get 100 marxists to
define what is the working class you
will get 100 different answers all of
them wrong
oh
so wicked energy backed up as formal
comment i did not know that
wicked energy says that unnatural vegan
was previously an objectivist and did a
video on anne rand
okay guys let's just check has that
video been deleted or do you listed
i am shocked okay so that i my
speculation before that a natural
vegan's so-called consequentialism and
so-called utilitarianism was a mask for
an arabian objectivism
wow so she made a video one year ago
that has five sorry pardon me it has 56
000 uh views and it is called why i gave
up objectivism so that is a small number
of views by her standards i'm not
criticizing her but obviously it was
less
less popular than her videos on many
other things so there you go i did not
know i did not know that side of her
story i was a speculator that's the
that's the that's the link so that's
unnatural vegan
confessing
her objectivism
okay well there you go nothing every day
um
i mean i you know
i guess then we can ask the question
uh
what is stupider her former
objectivism which probably did relate to
the science fiction she liked it did
there is there's a lot of that and randy
and objectivism in american science
fiction um to what extent is her current
flirtation with neoliberalism stupider
than her flirtation with uh objectivism
but yeah um the way she talks about so
let's just address this the way she
always talked about utilitarianism
as if
the benefits and costs of things are
evident to any of the people involved in
the political negotiations that always
seemed you know bizarre to me
so i actually sorry this is a good time
to bring in i have a question from a
member of the audience this is set in by
a supporter on patreon so it's not in
the comments now someone who sent me a
message via the website patreon
patreon.com i think you can support the
channel for one dollar a month and talk
to me there
um so this relates very directly to a
natural vegan utilitarianism objectivism
neoliberalism so you'll see so i'm going
to quote this person writing the
audience quote
are the minimum standards set by
government
set by the measurable harm
caused to society question mark so are
the are the standards set
by the measurable harm caused by a
policy or a problem
and continues if this was the case then
substances like alcohol or meat should
be banned from consumption since alcohol
or meat causes more measurable harm to
society
out
i i don't know how old this guy is like
to me i read this like what are you 18
like
you know like you think harm and benefit
are like self-instantiating
self-demonstrating self-defining you
know quantities you know uh like not
even with designing a sewage system or
water
water in the pipes there is no
you know
self-quantifying measure of harm oh have
you not heard of this this policy called
quote-unquote harm reduction so one of
the most popular
excuses for the left to decriminalize
hard drugs to make heroin and cocaine
legal not to mention marijuana and
everything else to make fentanyl and all
these other opiates and everything they
say oh well it's harm reduction
they seriously claim that there is less
harm
in allowing people to inject themselves
with drugs or smoke
crack cocaine than paying the police to
enforce the law
put them in prison kick down doors
carefully
that's justified as harm reduction so
you're going to sit here and
even just entertain the notion man i
realize this guy's asking a question
but if you're going to sit here and say
oh are the minimum standards set by the
measurable harm done by a policy how do
you measure the harm done by people
becoming addicted to
crack cocaine heroin
other fashionable opiates of our day
like fentanyl how do you measure the
home how do you measure the harm caused
by having the police
enforce the law that's basically the
contract
politically many people are willing to
perceive the legalization of addictive
drugs as
as harm reduction so you know i'm sorry
this guy i don't know he could be 40
years old he could be 18 years old
people write to me if they don't tell me
how old they are i have no idea how
mature or immature you are i don't you
know i don't know what what james is but
to me that's just laugh out loud
ridiculous and unnatural vegans own
reasoning about
harm
and benefit and utility it has this
similarly teenaged
twinge to it which is a teenage tint to
a tint tint is the word you know this
very strange thing of of talking about
these things as if they have any kind of
self-evident uh quality now you know
sorry there are many things about this
question actually i despise um so to
finish his sentence he says quote if
this was the case grammar if this were
the case
if this were the case then substances
like alcohol or meat should be banned
from consumption since alcohol or meat
causes more measurable harm than
circumcision
close quote
how do you measure the harm caused
by people drinking beer
or eating hamburgers
i can measure the harm
done by circumcision
right i can measure the number of nerve
endings you're being deprived of for the
rest drive this is a literal physical
disability being inflicted through
a medically unnecessary surgery
right are you [ __ ] kidding me like
are you 18 years old do you think it is
easy to convincingly demonstrate in a
democratic society that
allowing alcohol like the legalization
of alcohol
causes more harm than prohibition which
is our fancy american term for making
alcohol illegal there's a lot of harm
done by making alcohol illegal and
enforcing those laws and we all have
experience with it in this part of the
world you know actually having the
police kick down the doors of every
speakeasy every illegal like you want to
talk about harm on a massive scale you
want to make alcohol illegal there's
going to be harm you know
really i'm sorry you're most of you in
the audience your own parents and
grandparents are going to be thrown into
prison because they'll carry on drinking
whiskey or something there will be
people who don't change there'll be
people who make beer in their basement
and who make whiskey in a still in their
backyard you are talking about draconian
enforcement on a massive scale to outlaw
you know um alcohol and and by the way
you know
this is the same argument the
left-wingers used to talk about harm
reduction they say legalization was
harmonious now another thing to note if
you follow libertarian politics it is
interesting to note that the right wing
the libertarian right wing they also
support quote-unquote harm reduction
they support total legalization total
decriminalization of all
drugs including heroin and cocaine so
interestingly both the far left and the
far right in america at least support
making
illegal drugs legal with this kind of
reasoning
yeah and anyone can look at saudi arabia
even malaysia basically alcohol is
illegal in malaysia unless you're a
tourist unless there are some categories
that they allow it on the beach for
tourists and stuff you know but alcohol
is is somewhat illegal in malaysia i've
been in malaysia it's a distant memory
you know
people will
visit saudi arabia and say what do you
mean what are you talking where's the
benefit this is a horrible society
these are not easy arguments to make
okay
harm is an idea
in your head
okay benefit
is an idea
in your head
beauty
and ugliness and harmony and disharmony
these are human created aesthetic
notions in your head and i i just don't
know i mean maybe you're 18 years old do
you know what it's like to stand up in
front of city hall and try to make an
argument for a particular policy that
you think
has benefits and has very little harm
and where other people don't agree or
don't believe in you this is the real
theater you know where where politics
unfolds so yeah i i find this question
um horrifying but um
you know this really seems to be the
kind of objectivist utilitarian
consequentialist demi-mod that initial
vegan has been living in for so many
years where she she presumes that these
these values
um
exist in an objectively real way now
look guys let's take it all the way just
with veganism um
what causes more harm
killing rats
or passing a law that makes it illegal
to kill rats
i talked about this last my channel
more than three years ago i think but i
talked about it it's like look guys if
you're actually reading political
discourse then veganism
all these people with phds are
supposedly elite highly educated leaders
in the vegan movement they are saying
that rat lives matter that literally you
can't kill rats that you know the whole
world should recognize rats as citizens
of the cities they live in this is
called the citizenship approach i kid
you not
and that you know it should actually be
a crime to kill a rat or a snake that a
rat has just as much right to live in
your basement as as you do okay now do
you think there's some self-evident
measure of harm i mean the rat it loses
everything it has to lose the rat is
losing its whole life and if you
actually have experience killing rats
it's a saddening thing
you kill adult rats and they're the
squirming little babies they're little
baby rats that are cute and nestled up
with their mother they're mammals too
they have feelings too they have
suffering and pain too it's a horrifying
thing
if you want to live in a house made of
bricks
you have to kill rats if you want to
operate a green farm pretty much any
kind of grain doesn't matter if you grow
lentils frankly as opposed to wheat or
corn
you are going to have to kill rats i
it's ugly it's evil it's barbaric i
think there's an argument to be made if
we're talking about a science fiction
time scale like in the next 500 years
you could try to develop some technology
that will reduce the barbarity of this
so we don't have to be killing rats all
the time some kind of
rat control that's less horrendous and
there are there are things you can do in
the design of a city that'll stop rats
and reproduce okay
there is no utility there is no harm and
there is no benefit but thinking makes
it so there is no beauty and there is no
ugliness your desire makes it so okay
because you desire one thing or another
you perceive something as harm and you
perceive something as benefit it's all
relative to you it's none of this is
objectively real okay i want to live in
a society
full of sober people
not happy people
i don't give a [ __ ] if you're happy
all right
i want everybody to be sober like if
people are miserable because they just
got divorced i don't think they should
go out and get drunk i'm not disputing
that it makes them happier all kinds of
people cope with the miseries of life by
going out and getting drunk that's not
my agenda politically and you can talk
about harm and benefit you can you can
really argue what's the harm of allowing
these people to go out and get drunk go
and wallow in their sorrows and what's
the benefit of allowing
i don't want to live in a society where
people are happy
because they're
smoking methamphetamine
or using heroin or using cocaine or you
know one of the other great drugs of our
time is just testosterone injections
unlike antidepressants you know
antidepressants don't work ssri
antidepressants you know they don't work
guess what shooting up
steroids performing it for performance
enhancing drugs and testosterone it
actually makes people happy
i i don't want to live in a society full
of happy people i want to live in
society full of sober people and i want
them to struggle with their own misery
that's my agenda
that's
okay so beauty exists in the eye of the
beholder
bread only tastes good to a man with an
empty stomach it doesn't objectively or
intrinsically taste good right water
has no flavor at all when you don't
desire it but when you're thirsty
it's the most delicious thing in the
world when you're exhausted when you're
on the verge of collapsing you have no
idea how tantalizing the taste of water
is until you push your body to those
limits and then drank water that's a
totally different flavor from right now
if you go to that go to this tap your
water could taste like nothing it tastes
like everything right um
[Music]
the value of sobriety the value of uh
so-called harm reduction legalization of
of drugs having a drug policy that
encourages them you know
the notion of harm right this is all
relative to who we are what we assert
and what we can convince others of
subjectively
um
and hilariously i think one of the very
few exceptions is when we get into
something like circumcision or if you
get into something like amputating your
leg is kind of the same thing um of
course then we're dealing in an area
where look guy is
amputating someone's leg for no reason
that is harming them in an objectively
real sense that's not subjective
well guess what amputating part of the
human penis or amputating a woman's
clitoris this is harm
in an objectively real sense that isn't
up to your up to your subjective
perspective and by the way if you
haven't been following muslim politics
there are always women who will stand up
and say that they're perfectly happy
after undergoing uh female circumcision
there have always been defenders of that
from the muslim side so you know
great comment from the audience by the
way quote as a swede i'm obliged to
point out that denmark is the absolute
worst
so not not everyone regards denmark as a
positive example and i know denmark is
not paradise sweden also is not paradise
i have been tempted at some dark points
in my life i've been tempted to move to
sweden you know i thought i thought
maybe my life would be better if i were
the only jew in stockholm if i were an
exotic no exotic jewish intellectual and
uh
but you know no i mean i
i've known swedes i've known swedes in
real life
i'm not going to digress and do a
critique of swedish culture talk about
talk about alcoholism talk about having
a culture built on public drunkenness
jeez
let's talk about a culture where
everyone's happy because they're all
taking drugs that's swedenborg
anyway but yeah i realize that many of
the western european democracies that
that americans praise as being better
than america
they have some advantages they have
disadvantages also all right
okay so a lot of good questions here
whoo
yeah a lot of great questions thanks
guys thanks for joining the audience
thanks for joining the link thanks for
giving thumbs up so as a result i have a
lot of good questions too
to uh respond to all right there was a
question from tkat here about democracy
tcat asks quote do you think democracy
is a moral necessity or an engineering
device that produces good government a
very leading question very provocative
question
what happens when it's not good at
producing good government right so i
think he already is anticipating you
know part of my answer so i gave a very
nuanced statement about democracy before
and i pointed out that there are some
non-democratic non-democratic societies
that are better than democratic
societies so even though i think there's
a moral argument for democracy like
fundamentally
you know why is the mayor in charge well
we elected him okay so now we have to
respect them there's a kind of moral
argument there
when the mayor is not elected when
nobody is elected are relationships of
authority
what they mean and why they should exist
and what the role of the public is in
scrutinizing government and informing
government the extent and the extent to
which government really serves the
people starts with questions so i'm
going to just digress slightly many
years ago i made a video it's quite a
poorly made video um where i said look
you know the fundamental thing i want is
government that is by the poor and for
the poor and of those two for the poor
kind of matters more um i'm not going to
digress in a huge way here but you guys
probably all know who needs buses
is it the rich or the poor you know you
might have rich people who really the
attitude rich people live in detroit and
they say who needs buses this is a great
city it's great you own a car you can
drive around okay it's not everyone
else's car not everyone can okay like
buses are an example of a
government-provided social service that
is for the poor now in a subtle way
health care and
education and all these things what
really matters is that they are for the
poor because the rich the extremely
wealthy they will be able to
provide their own education one way or
another even if it's hiring private
tutors or whatever it is ultimately if
the rich need a helicopter they can get
a helicopter now by the way i don't
think the rich are of no significance in
society the richer tremendous
significant society i've just been
writing a chapter in my book where i
talk about the extent to which
aristocrats really mattered positively
in history and it's wrong for us to now
write the history of the world looking
back at the past as if aristocrats were
social parasites as if they accomplished
nothing or did nothing no rich people
make an important contribution to our
society which
is is valued it should be valued and
it's valued i don't i don't think
there's a lack of public appreciation
for elon musk i think there's plenty of
appreciation
but um my point being not not that i'm
caricaturing the rich as social
parasites or as our perpetual political
enemies that's not my perspective but
really my most fundamental concern about
government is that it is
of the poor by the poor and for the poor
and i'll just say when i say
of the poor
i can't emphasize enough how important
it is to have poor people literally in
the room for those debates so often
still in american democracy today
certainly at city hall certainly at
state government level you're having a
discussion about what we should do about
the bus system or what we should do
about food stamps or some social policy
and every single person in the room is a
wealthy lawyer or wealthy businessman
who went from being a lawyer to being a
congressman or a senator or a bureaucrat
in government every single person in the
room is of that background and you think
oh how is it possible that 50 years went
by and nobody dealt with the problems
first nations people are having like
poverty stricken first nations people
reservation how is it possible 50 years
on buy and they never took took
seriously improving the bus system or
the food stamp system none of those
people are in the room none of them see
the problem that way having people in
the room even if they're stupid
just let's be blunt if you have some
room who really doesn't understand the
system works but who can say hey look
they know what it's like to be on food
stamps they know what it's like to rely
on the bus system they know what it's
like to have spent the last 20 years on
a first nations reservation that's mired
in poverty and hopelessness and have
vague promises of a better life offered
by the government the government doesn't
do anything whatever the perspective is
you know
you can't just have government that is
of by the rich of the rich and for the
poor
and i think there's an argument that
today that's what china has china has a
kind of dictatorship that both nominally
and actually is committed to helping the
poor it really is however it's also an
aristocracy the communist party in china
is simply an aristocracy
um you're very often looking at the sons
and grandsons of people who were heroes
in the revolution
people were literally like a military
leader in the revolution their sons and
grandsons now sit wearing a businessman
suit as a communist party highly ranked
official that's not 100 the communist
party but i'm just characterizing it it
is in effect an aristocracy and they are
rich people
there was a hilarious scandal you guys
can google about one of these communist
party prince princelings so this word
princeling it again indicates a kind of
aristocratic status but there was a
young gentleman born into wealth and
power in the communist party
and he crashed his lamborghini
i'm sorry if it was a ferrari correct me
but i believe was another lamborghini
for he crashed an incredibly expensive
sports car and he had three beautiful
prostitutes inside you know at this so
it's like you know
uh
grandson of communist party war hero
crashes lamborghini with
three prostitutes going at high speeds
on beijing
um
so you know there are many aspects to
democracy but
the emphasis i want to give in framing
my answer to this question is you know
you've got to think about government by
the poor of the poor and for the poor
and
that is not what the founding fathers
the united
had mine that is not what the authors of
the american constitution might at all i
think the last five chapters of my book
are a really in-depth well-researched
discussion of the american constitution
where it comes from what it is and how
it was in some ways uh misinterpreted
and applied in different ways but the
the real intellectual history of the the
american constitution is a significant
portion of my book and in many ways it's
the kind of
uh the conclusion of the book is
consumed with this
critique of the american constitution
that's also why the book took so long
that i did a lot of original reading
original research to expand that part of
it take that part of it really seriously
so we're turning the question from tcat
he asked do you think democracy is a
moral necessity or an engineering device
that produces good government so you
know i guess you know my answer is
neither and he didn't ask
what happens when it's not good at
producing good government
iran
iran is what happens and look at iran
you know you can have a muslim majority
country where you can have a country
where 51 of people are religious
fanatics whether they're muslim or
christian or jewish
and you can have democracy will be
terrible you'll have you'll consistently
have horrible muslim fundamentalist
governments elected i mean for the
future of iran that's all the name once
he's happening iran does have democracy
guys they have elections they have
newspapers that criticize the government
and people get to state competing views
how much hope do you have for the next
30 years in iran and you know if the
people change government will change you
know like that's the that's the good
thing about democracy but iran is this
terrible regime is this terrible country
this terrible government and they are
they are an example of what happens when
democracy doesn't produce a good
government so you know
look i i can bring this back to
aristotle um
people don't give aristotle credit for
the extent to which he was an empiricist
about uh democracy about politics in
general i suppose
so i like okay so to criticize aristotle
for a second what aristotle says about
god and religion
physics metaphysics
um cosmology
uh what he says about logic many of
those things are very speculative very
abstract and they were very influential
he influenced uh catholic church
doctrine to an unbelievable stance
through the dark ages so
but when aristotle talks about politics
he is a very
empirical ground up working with real
world examples you know approach and he
lived through a period of time where he
was able to survey many democratic
systems in greece and he was able to say
look most of them failed most of them
were horrible they created horrible
societies there's terrible failures in
the not all
but most so just to give you an example
here this is from the book that is just
called politics by aristotle which is a
very difficult book to read if you're a
beginner in ancient greek political
philosophy i don't recommend it for
beginners so he says uh
we must now take the different
constitutions separately and study them
successively in light of these general
propositions and what happens in each of
the types
in democracies changes are chiefly due
to the wanton license of demagogues
this takes two forms sometimes the
demagogues attack the rich individually
by bringing false accusations and thus
force them to combine i.e for the rich
people to get organized against the poor
against the common danger that you that
unites even the bitterest enemies
sometimes they attack the rich as a
class by egging on the common people
against them
the result of such action may be seen in
a number of instances
at costs so costs is a particular island
in greece at cost democracy was
overthrown by the rise of discreditable
debt demagogues and then the combination
of the rich against them the same thing
happened at rhodes so again the island
of rhodes part of greece where the
demagogues first introduced the system
of government blah blah blah so he's
going through these examples at heraclea
on the black sea democracy was ruined by
the behavior of demagogues soon after
the colony was founded at megura too so
mega was an important in ancient greece
it's an important city a minor city
today it still exists within greece
democracy was ruined in a similar way
the demagogues anxious to have an excuse
for confiscating their property drove a
number of the notables and exile he goes
on there's a whole list
talking about the career of thoracicus
and
one city after another one island after
another okay
the the failures of democracy were real
uh
it's very unsympathetic
aristotle being
anti-democracy
we have we have a book dealing with a
terrible book but we have a book just
the extent to which the major authors of
ancient athens were
not just critics of democracy but were
really anti-democracy it's very
unsympathetic today you think what's
wrong with these people they were all
pro-slavery and anti-democracy but when
you appreciate that they were living
through a period of time when in the
same way that i can point to north korea
and i can point to the soviet union i
can point at china i can point to the
failures of uh of communism he was
living through a period of time when he
could very easily point to the failures
of democracy all around him uh and his
own conclusions actually are basically
endorsing a mixed system of moderate
democracy which he may or may not get
credit for and i would just say i am
actually more pro-democracy than
aristotle i'm there are many things that
would criticize aristotle about i mean
also he was pro-slavery in case you
didn't know um
yeah but i i just say this this
empirical aspect of the approach is
important and that was the main thing
that i was um
the main thing that i was endorsing but
look sorry come back just one last time
that he gets questioned he's asking do
you think democracy is a moral necessity
or an engineering device
in terms of the writing of the american
constitution
absolutely neither they didn't think
about this at all in terms of the the
quote-unquote writing of the british
constitution
it's
an unwritten constitution created
through several stages most importantly
the the english civil war and the uh
recreation of the monarchy after the end
of the cromwell regime but the the
british constitution such as this
these are totally irrelevant it's
neither created as a moral necessity nor
as a social engineering device
so you know the real examples of
democratic systems we have in the world
today these things are not uh true
although interestingly aristotle does
talk about democracy being a moral
necessity but uh in a totally different
way his conclusions have nothing to do
with elections it's instead this idea of
um election by lot sortition the random
assignation of offices to people which
again is worth talking about that'd be a
told a whole different video but on that
level he aristotle does believe it's a
moral necessity which is very
interesting argument
okay
um one simple suggestion from the
audience move to thailand there's so
many comments i am skipping over some of
them um
some more comments about the use of
reflective arrays mirrors
to manage uh global warming which
seems now to be uh
an inevitability given the lack of
interest in planet earth and becoming
vegan
um
[Music]
great question quote who do you who do
you dislike more unnatural vegan or
vegan gains
i will refer you back to um
my comments before about the left wing
and my interaction with them i think a
good question is who could i actually
sit there and have lunch with and i
think you know it would be impossible
for me to sit and have lunch with vegan
gains it would it would presumably be
possible for me to sit and have lunch
with a natural vegan so that's the and
it's a mutual antagonism right in both
cases i think it's the hostility maybe
i'm wrong maybe if i ate lunch with a
natural vegan she would throw her shoe
at me i don't know i don't know how that
would end
um
someone in the audience confirms that
they also are morally opposed to stamp
collecting
all right a quote from lilac cloud who i
haven't seen in a little while good good
to hear from you lila cloud
uh quote your views on culture really
resonated with me when i was 15 i came
to similar conclusions all my life
culture was used as a justification for
really stupid and evil things close
quote uh thank you lila cloud and you
know i think that
i think that that critique of culture it
still holds up even when we apply it to
relatively harmless examples like
museums and movie theaters um
you know the extent to which people
think
it is morally good to show your children
batman
or the x-men the latest marvel movie is
black widow like we think of this as
children's entertainment for cultural
reasons some of which you know goes back
to the 1930s but most of most of which
is really the 1970s comic books were
really reinvented in the 1970s the
current era of comic books i just say
you know i realize batman has a longer
history but we're mostly thinking about
batman from that period forward in terms
of what's going on in the movies
the fact that you think
this is good and even morally uplifting
and appropriate entertainment to show to
your children that's also a kind of
unquestioned cultural tradition i think
it falls apart as soon as you ask the
most basic questions about it you know
um
you know i remember when i was still a
child i was really a child i could
figure out what year this was um
this guy uh
how am i gonna explain a guy who might
as well have been my uncle were not
actually related but you know somebody
was friends with my family that way he
might as well have been uncle i remember
him saying to me that he thought the new
batman movie of that time was totally
inappropriate for children i was just
shocked to hear it
and he pointed out it was scene i'd
totally ignored in watching the movie
myself he said it shows a lawyer
murdering his secretary
by pushing her out of a window which was
true i mean it's a short scene in the
movie it's like you know you think you
can show this to kids and then you know
the the secretary comes back from the
dead as catwoman in that film alone
catwoman is a kind of zombie wearing
this skin-tight sexually provocative
outfit and like
i hadn't thought of it that way
you know i just really didn't uh didn't
think of it that way terrible movie by
the way i mean i don't think i thought
it was a great movie but no um so you
know i just say even with these kind of
more recent and more supposedly harmless
things you can still see the fundamental
evils of of culture the most
fundamentally evolved perhaps being that
it leads us to to not question things
that obviously we ought to question and
by the way uh sorry the title of this
video in our original conversation this
is also a problem with the culture of
socialism there's also a problem with
the culture of capitalism on a smaller
scale the people who positively believe
in capitalism as an as an ideology like
libertarians and anirand uh objectivists
and so on you know uh
that this is a problem where people
believe in this in this unquestioning
way because it is a cultural tradition
they treat it as defining good and evil
wise and stupid without asking
themselves any of the necessary
questions
all right
lila cloud says further that criticizing
aspects of someone's cultural religion
is now something very taboo in leftist
circles
yes
and so really briefly obviously there
could be a whole separate video to talk
about that but what an irony i mean the
left of the
1960s defined itself by the demolition
of conservative culture you could say
very simply the left of the 1960s was
devoted to demolishing and replacing the
culture of the 1940s and 1950s
everything that had been normal
including the haircuts and style of
clothing and music and
drugs and sex and everything else all of
the moral verities that were presumed to
be good in the 1940s and 1950s were to
be challenged with the the new
counterculture of the 1960s that's what
defined the left for many decades
thereafter and it is true there is now a
very strange form of cultural
conservatism on the left and they will
not even let you question
culture and religion of say islam even
though that doesn't it is not woke from
their perspective they nevertheless
champion
islam
um in a totally paradoxical way so yeah
that is that's a very strange uh you
know and again i think this just
indicates the extent to which these
categories we think in terms of abstract
categories like socialists and
communists and leftists are are
you know to some extent meaningless and
misleading maybe because people want
them to be misleading maybe because
people politically thrive on misleading
others because
ultimately all politics all politics in
the united states of america rests on
fundraising i'll tell you that maybe not
the whole world but american politics
your ability to engage in politics rests
totally on your ability to raise
donations and that's how american
religion works also so you have to say
whatever it takes to get donations
coming in predominantly from elderly
people
a quote from rt
rt says isil i'm also on the west coast
and i don't like living here for various
reasons what would be the ideal place
for you to live uh he says perhaps i
wrongly assume you'd want to get away
from the city so look interesting
question but look i so i'm gonna give an
answer that has to do with who i am and
this is not
most you are not going to relate to this
okay
i liked living in cambodia
because it's a disaster not despite the
fact that it's a disaster i want to deal
with the problems i want to deal with
the complexity i couldn't even say
that's the only thing i liked about
cambodia you know i don't like the food
i don't like the climate i don't like
the music
i don't listen to cambodian
pop songs or dance music i don't go to
the disco in cambodia kidding me
i want to be in a place where i can make
a positive difference hey why do you
think i got involved with vegan politics
because i think vegan politics are great
no i think that's the place where i can
make a difference that's what i'm drawn
to you know so i'm kind of drawn to the
weakest and worst place in some ways if
that's where i can lead the meaningful
life and that's where i can make a
difference what do you think i like
about living in communist laos communist
dictatorship in southeast asia
i like it because it's a disaster i like
it because i can make a difference and i
did as a completely powerless person i
had an impact on politics in vienna
capital city loss that i could never
have in tokyo japan for example you know
many others you know so you know that's
my agenda so
if you think about me moving to detroit
if you think about me moving to alabama
right
exactly what would be rewarding for me
is the way in which those places are a
disaster you know and i i'm not someone
i'm just being honest with you i never
think
my life would be better in paris or my
life would be better in berlin and maybe
i'm wrong
maybe if i lived in paris or berlin
there would really be a lot of
like-minded intellectuals like 10 you
know i'm not not hundreds but maybe
there will be intellectuals who have
something in common with me and i can
live them i i considered so tcat will
remember this i considered moving to los
angeles
i could consider it again
in many ways los angeles is a horrible
city horrible place to live but you
could make that same kind of argument
maybe there would be like-minded people
who share some of my political interests
and concern maybe there would be people
who want to publish my book or want to
read my book or publish my children's
story books or collaborate with me on
youtube or be involved with me in
politics maybe there would be or be
involved with me in filmmaking
you know maybe there's an argument that
kind of live a better life in los
angeles but in terms of what i respond
to and what i care about that's what's
kind of led me around the world the
different places that i've that i've
tried to live
and um
you know i think there's an argument
that the path i've taken in life
almost guarantees my perpetual
unhappiness you know
but i've i've had one hell of a life
guys
uh
when you've had a life like mine it's
it's hard to have regrets i try
if anything i'm constantly broadcasting
and magnifying
is that that hell of a knife
um
all right skipping ahead here
okay quote so i've seen this claim
repeatedly so melissa this is
interesting
wicked energy says did you see that
vegan gains is now on antidepressants
he says they are working and he's not
missing
so look wicked energy
someone told me that before like a month
ago maybe like not that long ago
and i was very surprised to hear it and
i googled around and i couldn't find a
trace i am not
faulting you
i assume this is something he mentioned
in a live stream or that he mentioned
while playing video games or something
like i assume but i do not
i do not know about that i was not able
to find any evidence of that that is
certainly a shocking new low
for vegan gains and um
you know i guess he's going to join the
club of sammy grimm i mean if this is
true
where that goes next it will raise
interesting questions sorry it's way off
topic for this video but i i am
interested to hear that again that's the
second time someone has told me that
and i guess eventually he's going to
make a youtube video uh promoting vegan
so a third person here has written in
and saying yes he he has heard vegan
gains saying that he was on antibiotics
so during a live stream he has talked
about it
well
look so okay i can make this relevant to
the video in this following way
it is
appalling to me that someone like
unnatural vegan who claims to be doing a
science literacy science advocacy
channel would so utterly drop the ball
on the science behind any presence
melissa could you grab as a prop
that book there you go shout out to
and shout out to robert whitaker i've
quoted him on the channel before this
guy i mean i just say i've had clips of
him talking this is
on the robert
sorry how to get that camera to focus
robert whittaker anatomy of an epidemic
okay guys i
it's the book i can most easily endorse
what
great book great book great guy whatever
all right um
if you are a natural vegan and you are
doing a scientific skeptic show
for and you represent utilitarianism and
harm reduction and consequentialism and
all these all stuff
how could you fail to be concerned about
the consequence of
endorsing drugs that cause brain damage
that cause permanent irreparable harm
and changes in the structure and
function of your brain and that are
scientifically proven not to have
medical benefits i mean
you know it does not take a genius but
especially if that is your lane if that
is what you're claiming to you are
claiming to be the one youtube channel
that doesn't just lazily repeat that
using artificial sweeteners is wrong
i just mean i myself just by difficult i
don't use artificial sweeteners i'm not
afraid of them but it's just kind of
like why you know
why do i need this in my life i don't i
don't use artificial illusions but she
came out and did all this research and
made this rigorous
pro-science argument that you should be
comfortable using uh think splenda
specifically using artificial sweeteners
okay well why is it that all your your
whole you know frame of reference stops
that your commitment to so-called
critical thinking and research and
science advocacy stops when it comes to
mind-altering drugs namely
antidepressants
jacqueline glenn same question vegan
gains same question vegan gains claims
that he's researched the medical side
effects of using steroids to death
they're kind of that he's researched the
dietary effects of eating meat and
eating fish to death i
do not find his research credible but
nevertheless he's done a lot of it he
may do really bad research really
incompetent research but i know he has
read a significant quantity of things
and he backs up his claim by studying
studies
well you know why wouldn't you research
these uh these mind-altering drugs that
you're that you're taking so yeah that
is i mean
of for someone who is such a despicable
person that is certainly a new all-time
low he has made himself more despicable
obviously for a natural vegan i would
say her all-time low was justifying
taking um
taking antidepressants during pregnancy
during pregnancy and during
breastfeeding sorry but there's hard
science on that so why would she not
fess up to that and face after that okay
so anyway guys it's mostly off topic of
this video but thanks for letting me
know that i didn't know and you know
look honestly i feel sorry for richard i
do i you know you guys know we weren't
close friends but we were friends for a
couple of years there and sure that's
that's very saddening to hear but
obviously everything about that guy's
life is
is uh sat in here
all right just coming to the end
okay guys thank you for being with me
it's been a fully a two-hour stream we
have 45 people in the audience and 44
thumbs up it's a good sign
there's one person there's one hold out
oh they just left so then we have 44
people in the audience the 44
[Laughter]
it's been it's been great uh having you
with me you know so i gotta say on the
core topics of this video to sum up
when you're thinking about
liberalism neoliberalism conservatism
socialism and you know the future of the
left after the end of you know
after the end of joe biden's career
let's let's put it that way what what is
going to happen to the left after joe
biden's term in office that that's a
really good question you know what is
going to happen after
uh alexandria ocasio-cortez fades from
her current position of prominence and
fame i don't think she's providing a
whole lot of direction obviously bernie
sanders has already faded from his
formerly uh prominent position of fame
these are really important really
worthwhile you know questions but i
really encourage you you've got to think
through uh
from the perspective of a real world
tangible experience first and foremost
and then work your way up to
generalizations and abstract claims not
to proceed from
generalizations and abstractions
definitions of philosophical terms to
then try to foist them onto uh the
confusing and often paradoxical reality
of what the world is now you know
politics
is done
by stupid people
and i want to give a shout out to
michael moore
if you ask me to evaluate the
intelligence of michael moore on a scale
of 1-10 i don't know if he's a five you
know like i do not have a lot of
intellectual esteem
for michael moore but you know what i
think he pointed the way forward for the
american left i think he was 100 right
when he made this stupid movie where
michael moore goes to europe he goes to
italy he goes to denmark did he go to
japan i forget i don't know if you want
anywhere i forget but anyway i
definitely remember
okay we watched well there you go
there's a bias right there you should
you should have gone to africa and south
america and east asia too he went to
iceland okay anyway michael moore buys a
series of airplane tickets and he visits
these places like iceland and italy and
denmark and he says look these people
fundamentally have a better economic
system than america they have a better
political system than america they have
better social services better health
care than america and we have to learn
from their example um there's a very
moving dialogue
from ancient rome
in which rival factions stand up in the
senate
i might be misremembering whether it was
the senate or one of the committees
rome had more than one
committee
those term used but anyway i believe it
was the senate rival factions stand up
in the senate and for completely cynical
political reasons actually they begin
their speeches by stating what it is
that makes rome great
and one of the speeches i believe this
is by a young julius caesar this is
caesar long before he comes back he says
you know
you know what made rome great
is our willingness
to adopt the ideas of others
you know he said you know what the best
aspects of government here in rome some
of them were copied from
athens
some of them were copied from sparta or
other parts of greece and then you know
within the at that time the area that's
now italy wasn't one country or one
culture there's a whole bunch of
different cultures and they have all
this contact with north africa and the
southern coast of spain so you know we
have this whole little galaxy
of trading uh
ports and posts that we reach out to and
you know what made rome great was our
willingness to learn from others because
we would rather be pardoning we would
rather emulate our enemies than be
defeated by
oh this is a situation of open
imperialism where they're they're
conquering these people rome does
eventually conquer all of greece because
he didn't know you know but he's saying
we're willing to learn from our enemies
we're willing to learn from other
cultures we're going to copy and you
know
um
we're willing to take the best aspects
of their societies you know i do think
that
the pragmatic immediate future for both
the left and the right is the
willingness to get on an airplane and go
to japan and figure out what they're
doing right and we're doing wrong and
learn from it and learn from others
now
that there's nothing left-wing and
there's nothing right-wing about what we
have to learn from japan after i finish
this live stream i could just walk to a
grocery store down the street i could
walk to the bank walk to some service
i guarantee you i am going to see people
injecting drugs into their arms you know
i can't unless i ask them i don't know
is it heroin they're injecting weight i
will see people openly using injecting
injection drugs in the street i will see
people smoking what's probably fentanyl
that could be crack cocaine through a
glass pipe and a metal pipe i will see
this being done several times and i will
see even more people
passed out on drugs or in various stages
of shaking and quaking passed out on
hard drugs on the street
here in victoria canada if you're in the
wrong part of vancouver it's even worse
you know all these cities if you're in
seattle if you're in i'm sorry camera's
a hoax if you're in seattle if you're in
um
los angeles
if you're in vancouver or victoria right
okay and guess what you can go to osaka
japan
you can go to tokyo
you can go to you know
i'm not saying there is zero drug
addiction tremendous not zero there's
very little drug addiction and the the
drug addiction that exists there is
hidden
okay the japanese are doing something
right
they're doing they're doing something
that we're doing wrong and i don't care
if you call it left wing or right wing i
don't care if you call it capitalist or
socialist we have to be willing to learn
from others and then more broadly and
more deeply if you guys want to know
what i think about this you have to buy
my book it's going to be on amazon
my book is called no more manifestos
that's the short term thing we have to
do is to learn from others when they
have political policies or institutions
that already work and we don't by the
way who who has the best universities in
the world have you gone and visited
universities in other countries and seen
how the universities were crippling
tourists it's not going to be one simple
answer it's not going to be just like oh
well denmark they've solved the universe
no it's complex denmark has some
advantages some different disadvantages
like any particular policy that we're
talking about hospitals or universities
learning from what already works on
planet earth is complex and
contradictory okay but we do not have i
don't think in any of the western mars i
don't think we have a
culture of being willing to learn from
others that's short term that's what's
already working now and in the long term
one of the things i come back to
emphasize and discuss and philosophize
about in my book again and again is the
importance of asking questions that are
not even being asked the importance in
politics of not only dealing with
problems and solutions that are already
known but the importance of as i put it
pressing into the unknown
okay